>> I heard something
disturbing--
that the average American
recognizes over 1,000 logos
and the plants they're
associated with,
and yet less than five plants
and five birds in their area.
My name's Brigitte Mars.
I'm an herbalist.
And I've been a raw foodist
for over seven years.
Many years ago,
I lived in a tipi
and ate nothing but wild, edible
plants for 2 and 1/2 years.
Not once did I go to a store.
Everyone thinks
that all our food
needs to come from
the grocery stores.
And grocery stores are great.
Organic, natural food
stores are even better.
Gardens are wonderful.
I love farmer's markets.
But really, nature abounds with
a living cornucopia of plants
that we can use.
Plants like acorns, which are
the fruit or the nut of the oak
tree, yield a high-protein, high
in vitamin B complex starch.
However, you have to wait
till the acorns are ripe.
And then you leach them
to get the tannins out.
And that's simply done by
soaking the acorns in water.
And then you can grind the
acorns up and make a porridge
out of them.
And you can make
them into a flour
to use to increase the
nutritional content of whatever
you're making.
A lot of the wild
plants are the ancestors
of our
culinary-celebrated plants
that we consume on
a regular basis.
And one of those is the thistle.
Thistles are a member of the
daisy or Asteraceae family.
And this is the ancestor
of an artichoke.
Let's say you were hungry.
You could take the
young thistle stalk,
peel it with a carrot peeler.
And then you could
eat the inner stalk.
I like to marinate it in a bit
of olive oil and lemon juice.
You could also dig up the root,
really, at any time of the year
and eat them raw.
I prefer eating it raw.
But some people cook it.
The thistle flowers
are also edible.
And you can also eat the seeds.
Now, you hear a lot
about milk thistle seed
being a great remedy
for the liver.
But really, all thistle
seeds are edible.
And they actually help to
stimulate protein synthesis
in the liver.
A lot of birds know
that thistle seeds
are great nourishing food
as well as a healing tonic.
I live in Colorado.
And on the list of noxious weeds
is the St. John's-wort However,
people do go to the health
food stores and buy St.
John's-wort because it has been
found to be a remedy for mild
to moderate depression.
You can also eat the
flowers of St. John's-wort.
This herb helps the
light to shine through
and it helps to
improve people's moods.
Also, it's a
wonderful liver herb.
One of my favorites
is dandelion--
Taraxacum officinale.
Dandelion-- every
part of it is edible.
You can eat the leaves.
They're best in the springtime.
You can eat the flowers.
And they're really
high in lutein,
which is a remedy for
helping to improve our vision
and to help prevent
night blindness.
And the dandelion root could be
dug up at any time of the year.
And I like to just chop it up
and add some nama shoyu tamari
in a little olive oil.
Put it in the food dehydrator
for a couple of hours
and you've got a
wonderful, delicious dish
that is so good for your liver.
I see dandelions as being
one of our archetypal herbs
to help people better deal
with environmental pollutants.
After all, the dandelion
itself is a survivor.
And by imbibing the properties
that the plant takes on,
it can help give us
the same benefits.
So we have here fireweed--
Epilobium angustifolium.
And it's one of the
first things to bloom
after there's been a fire.
And you see a lot of this
in the Pacific Northwest.
One of my favorite
honeys is fireweed honey.
But I've also eaten
fireweed as a vegetable.
You collect the young shoots
and the buds in the springtime.
And you could add
them to a salad.
You can marinate them.
So we've got edible
flowers, edible nuts, roots.
It's everywhere you look.
And rather than thinking
that our food always
has to be purchased,
I encourage you
to start cultivating a garden
where maybe you grow vegetables
and you also learn the names
of some of your common plants
that offer themselves freely.